website/docs: add access requests doc (#24457)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/access-requests/index.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: pretty sure this is the only one without a sidebar_position

> ---

Reviewer: no jsx, can we rename to .md? (or just as a wild idea we say fuggedaboutit and rename all .md to mdx)

Author: I'm happy with changing them all to mdx, makes any future changes a bit easier

> ---

Reviewer: all mentions of user inerface linking to user interface doc: we need to mention the new stuff in this release

> title: Access requests

Reviewer: i dont see any docs about revocation? 

* admin clicking revoke
* Requesters canceling their own pending action

description: "Let users request time-bound access to applications and entitlements, with request rules, expiry, and a full audit trail"
sidebar_label: Access requests
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_version: "2026.8"
authentik_preview: true
---

## About access requests

Access requests allow users to request access to an application when they need it, rather than requiring an administrator to provision access in advance.

> Each request is evaluated against configured request rules and routed to one or more reviewers. When approved, access is granted for a defined period and automatically revoked when it expires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each request is evaluated against configured request rules and routed to one or more reviewers. When approved, access is granted for a defined period and expires automatically.
```

Revoked is a distinct status only reached when there's a specific revoke action. Expires keeps the status as approved which makes more sense here

This supports just-in-time and least-privilege access models. Users retain minimal standing access and request elevated access only when necessary, while authentik records every request and decision for auditing.

Access requests provide:

- A self-service way for users to request access through the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx).
- Rule-based routing to the appropriate reviewers.
- Time-limited access grants that expire automatically, without manual cleanup.

> - Audit events for request creation, approval, denial, and expiry.

Reviewer: where's expiry? I only seee https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/main/authentik/events/models.py#L139-L142

## Terminology

| Term                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Access request       | A request from a specific user for access to an application. A request can be pending, approved, denied, or expired.                                                    |

Reviewer: same as 23

> | Request rule         | A configuration that determines which request flow is used, who reviews requests, and how reviewers are notified. If no request flow is set, falls back to brand value. |

Reviewer: > If no request flow is set, falls back to brand value.

brand value is vague and sentence feels weird

| Request rule binding | A binding between a request rule and a requestable application. It also determines which users or groups can request access.                                            |
| Reviewer             | A user or group authorized to approve or deny an access request.                                                                                                        |

> | Expiry               | The period for which access granted through an approved request remains valid.                                                                                          |

Reviewer: consider splitting in 2 rows:

Pending expiry; how long an unanswered request survives 
Maximum granted expiry ; how long the grant lasts

## Access request lifecycle

> 1. A user logs in to authentik, opens the **Discover** page, and selects a requestable application, and optionally selects an application entitlement.

Reviewer: 2 ands chained, drop the second comma+and

> 1. A user logs in to authentik, opens the **Discover** page, and selects a requestable application, and optionally selects an application entitlement.

Reviewer: not exactly.

0: requests the app https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/user/requests/BrowseRequestable.ts#L95
exactly 1: auto-requests that entitlement with no prompt https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/user/requests/BrowseRequestable.ts#L83
2+: opens the **Select entitlement** modal. https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/user/requests/BrowseRequestable.ts#L89

> 2. authentik creates the access request and evaluates it against the request rules bound to the selected application.

Reviewer: steps 2-3 are inversed. from my and claude's understanding:

the flow runs first, the request is created by [GrantRequestFinalStageView](https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/enterprise/requests/stage.py#L17) at the end of the flow (https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/enterprise/requests/stage.py#L19), which is also why prompt data lands in requester_data. As this is written, the third step collects a justification after step 2 already created and routed the request, which is backwards.

3. authentik runs the configured request flow, if any, to collect required information such as a justification.
4. The assigned reviewers are notified based on the request rule's configuration, and the request appears in their pending-request queue.
5. A reviewer approves or denies the request. Requesters cannot approve their own requests.
6. If approved, authentik grants access to the application and starts the expiry timer.
7. When the access period ends, authentik automatically revokes access.

## Request rules

Request rules determine whether a request flow is used, who reviews requests, and how reviewers are notified. Users, groups, and policies are bound to a request rule to determine who is authorized to review access requests.

> Request rules are bound to an application, which makes the application requestable via the **Discover** page in the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx). Users, groups, and policies can be bound to request rule bindings to determine which users are eligible to request access to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request rules are bound to an application, which makes the application requestable via the **Discover** page in the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx). Users, groups, and policies can be bound to request rule bindings to determine which users are eligible to request access to the application. If a request rule binding has no users, groups, or policies bound to it, every user is eligible to request access to the application, following the same convention as application access. Reviewer eligibility works differently: a request rule with no users, groups, or policies bound to it has no one who can approve requests against it.

```

Reviewer: https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/enterprise/requests/api/apps.py#L44-L46
https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/enterprise/requests/models.py#L141-L144

## Request flows

Submitting a request executes a request flow. Use this to collect a justification, require re-authentication or MFA before elevation, or run policies against the requester.

Configure a **Request flow** on either:

- The request rule itself.

> - As a default for the [brand](../../customize/branding/index.md). Used as a fallback when the request rule does not have specify a request flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a default for the [brand](../../customize/branding/index.md). Used as a fallback when the request rule does not specify a request flow.
```

authentik includes a `default-request` flow that is empty. This flow can be configured with any required stages and policies. Any prompt data entered by a requester during a request flow is shown to the reviewer in the **Requester notes** field. Request flows can be left empty if you don't require user interaction.

## Configure access requests

### Create a request rule

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Request rules**.
3. Click **New Request Rule** and set the following fields:

>     - **Rule name**: The name for the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Rule Name**: The name for the rule.
```

https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/admin/requests/RequestRuleForm.ts#L71

>     - **Minimum reviewers**: The minimum number of reviewers who must approve a request.

Reviewer: per https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/enterprise/requests/models.py#L245 ; a single approval from any individually named reviewer should satisfy the rule, regardless of min reviewers. the threshold only applies to reviewers matched via group bindings. 

and well, if theres no group bindings, only a direct review can satisfy it.

Author: @beryju

Author: @dewi-tik @dominic-r need to test this - minimum reviewers is expected number of necessary approvals - otherwise it's a bug

        - **Everyone who can approve**
        - **Only individually-selected reviewers**
        - **A random subset (of size “minimum reviewers”) of everyone who can approve**
    - **Notification transports** _(optional)_: The [notification transports](../../sys-mgmt/events/transports.md) used to notify reviewers.
    - **Request flow** _(optional)_: The [request flow](#request-flows) presented to the user when requesting access.
4. Click **Create Request Rule**.

### Define users or groups to review access requests

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Request rules**.
3. Expand the request rule by clicking the chevron (**>**) next to its name.
4. Click **Create or bind...**.
5. Select the users, groups, or policies that will review access requests for that request rule.
   You can bind as many users, groups, and policies as necessary.

### Make an application requestable

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application name that you want to make requestable.

> 3. Open the **Request rules** tab, click **Bind existing rule** and set the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the **Request rules** tab, click **Create or bind...**, then select **Bind existing rule**
```

    - **Rule**: The request rule that is used.
    - **Pending expiry**: How long a request against this binding stays pending before it automatically lapses if not approved or denied.
    - **Maximum granted expiry**: The maximum duration a grant approved against this binding can last. Requesters can ask for less, but never more.
    - **Additional entitlements** _(optional)_: Application entitlements granted alongside access to this object when a request is approved.
4. Click **Create Request Rule Binding**.

### Define users or groups that can request access to the application

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click the application name that you want to make requestable.
3. Open the **Request rules** tab, and expand a request rule by clicking the chevron (**>**) next to its name.
4. Click **Create or bind...**.
5. Select the users, groups, or policies that can request access to the application via that request rule.
   You can bind as many users, groups, and policies as necessary.

### Verify the configuration

1. Log in as a test user who does not have access to the application.

> 2. Open the **Discover** tab and confirm that the application is offered as requestable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the **Discover** page and confirm that the application is offered as requestable.
```

Discover is the nav item

the tabs are browse, my requests, for review. Inconsistent with L37 120 124 130.

4. Approve it, confirm that access is granted, and that the corresponding events are recorded.

## Requester experience

### Requesting access

Users see requestable applications as cards on the **Discover** page of the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx) under the **Browse** tab. Selecting a card opens the request dialog and runs the configured request flow.

### View pending requests

Users can view their pending access requests under the **My Requests** tab on the **Discover** page.

## Reviewer experience

### Approving and denying access requests

Reviewers see pending requests on the **Discover** page of the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx) under the **For My Review** tab. The requester, the requested application, and the time since the request was made are listed.

Reviewers click the **Review** button and can approve or deny the request, and optionally add **Notes** before clicking the **Submit** button. Reviewers also see any prompt data that a requester entered in the request flow, in the **Requester notes** field.

### Admin interface

> Administrators can view all access requests via the access requests page (**Applications** > **Access Requests**). Each row represents an access request and shows the request's: requester, creation date and time, requested application, and status. Each access request can be expanded by clicking its chevron (**>**) to show **Requester data**. This is all the prompt data that the requester entered during the request flow, for example a justification for why the require access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators can view all access requests via the access requests page (**Applications** > **Access Requests**). Each row represents an access request and shows the requester, creation date and time, requested application, and status. Each access request can be expanded by clicking its chevron (**>**) to show **Requester data**. This is all the prompt data that the requester entered during the request flow, for example a justification for why they require access.
```

Reviewer: Also, to add to this comment, would be better if u used fields in the ui instead https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/admin/requests/AccessRequestListPage.ts#L56-L62

> Administrators can view all access requests via the access requests page (**Applications** > **Access Requests**). Each row represents an access request and shows the request's: requester, creation date and time, requested application, and status. Each access request can be expanded by clicking its chevron (**>**) to show **Requester data**. This is all the prompt data that the requester entered during the request flow, for example a justification for why the require access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators can view all access requests via the access requests page (**Applications** > **Access Requests**). Each row represents an access request and shows the request's: requester, creation date and time, requested application, and status. Each access request can be expanded by clicking its chevron (**>**) to show **Requester Data** and **Targets**. This is all the prompt data that the requester entered during the request flow, for example a justification for why the require access.
```

https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/web/src/admin/requests/AccessRequestListPage.ts#L64-L72

If the administrator account is set as a reviewer in the associated request rule, they can click **Fulfill** and approve or deny the access request.

## Events and auditing

> Every step of the request lifecycle is recorded as an event, and the new event actions are selectable in event matcher policies. Combine an event matcher policy with a notification rule to alert reviewers via Slack, email, or a webhook when a request is created, and to alert security teams when access is granted.

Reviewer: very long, please split

> Every step of the request lifecycle is recorded as an event, and the new event actions are selectable in event matcher policies. Combine an event matcher policy with a notification rule to alert reviewers via Slack, email, or a webhook when a request is created, and to alert security teams when access is granted.

Reviewer: also can we just name the four literals. Saying new is time relative and can go stale. Like saying something will be ready tomorrow. Same link as that other place, https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/blob/3cb4b9953ef31a267104000df98166594ea0d07f/authentik/events/models.py#L139-L142

See [Events](../../sys-mgmt/events/index.md) and [Notifications](../../sys-mgmt/events/notifications.md) for more information.

## Considerations and limitations

- A user cannot approve their own request.

> - Approved access is time-bound; plan expiry durations so that they match how long the work actually takes, or users will re-request frequently.

Reviewer: the "or users will" consequence reads as a warning on a guidance,mabye split in 2 sentences?

- Request rules depend on policies. A misconfigured policy can leave requests with no eligible reviewer.

> - **[VERIFY/TODO]** behavior when a request rule or application is deleted while requests are pending.

Reviewer: ;)

## Troubleshooting

| Symptom                                       | Cause and resolution                                                                                                |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | An application does not appear as requestable | The user already has access, or the user is not bound to the request rule binding on the application                |

Reviewer: needs periods per style guide and other table

> | An application does not appear as requestable | The user already has access, or the user is not bound to the request rule binding on the application                |

Reviewer: from what I saw, it never excludes objects the user can already reach. worth asking jens

Author: @BeryJu

| A request has no reviewers                    | No rule is bound to the application, the bound policies did not pass, or the only matched reviewer is the requester |
| A reviewer cannot action a request            | The reviewer is the requester, or is not matched by the request rule's bindings                                     |

> | Access disappears unexpectedly                | The expiry elapsed. Check the events log for the expiry event and adjust the configured duration                    |

Reviewer: same as 23

---
title: Access requests
description: "Let users request time-bound access to applications and entitlements, with request rules, expiry, and a full audit trail"
sidebar_label: Access requests
authentik_enterprise: true
authentik_version: "2026.8"

> authentik_preview: true

Reviewer 2: @BeryJu add preview banner in UI

This supports just-in-time and least-privilege access models. Users retain minimal standing access and request elevated access only when necessary, while authentik records every request and decision for auditing.

Access requests provide:

- A self-service way for users to request access through the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx).
- Rule-based routing to the appropriate reviewers.
- Time-limited access grants that expire automatically, without manual cleanup.
- Audit events for request creation, approval, denial, and expiry.

## Terminology

| Term                 | Description                                                                                                                  |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Access request       | A request from a specific user for access to an application. A request can be pending, approved, denied, or expired.         |

> | Request rule         | A configuration that determines whether a request flow is used, who reviews requests, and how reviewers are notified.        |

Reviewer 2: no whether but rather which request flow is used, defaults back to brand default one

> | Request rule         | A configuration that determines whether a request flow is used, who reviews requests, and how reviewers are notified.        |

Reviewer 2: Also configures who can approve/deny

| Request rule binding | A binding between a request rule and a requestable application. It also determines which users or groups can request access. |
| Reviewer             | A user or group authorized to approve or deny an access request.                                                             |
| Expiry               | The period for which access granted through an approved request remains valid.                                               |

## Access request lifecycle

> 1. A user logs in to authentik, opens the **Discover** page, and selects a requestable application.

Reviewer 2: And optionally selects an application entitlement

2. authentik runs the configured request flow, if any, to collect required information such as a justification.

> 3. authentik creates the access request and evaluates it against the request rules bound to the selected application.

Reviewer 2: Actually happens before the flow

4. The assigned reviewers are notified based on the request rule's configuration, and the request appears in their pending-request queue.
5. A reviewer approves or denies the request. Requesters cannot approve their own requests.
6. If approved, authentik grants access to the application and starts the expiry timer.
7. When the access period ends, authentik automatically revokes access.

## Request rules

Request rules determine whether a request flow is used, who reviews requests, and how reviewers are notified. Users, groups, and policies are bound to a request rule to determine who is authorized to review access requests.

Request rules are bound to an application, which makes the application requestable via the **Discover** page in the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx). Users, groups, and policies can be bound to request rule bindings to determine which users are eligible to request access to the application.

## Request flows

> Submitting a request can optionally execute a request flow. Use this to collect a justification, require re-authentication or MFA before elevation, or run policies against the requester.

Reviewer 2: always executes a flow

Configure a **Request flow** on either:

- The request rule itself.
- As a default for the [brand](../../customize/branding/index.md). Used as a fallback when the request rule does not have specify a request flow.

> authentik includes a `default-request` flow that is empty. This flow can be configured with any required stages and policies.

Reviewer 2: todo @BeryJu add a default request-flow that asks for justification with a prompt field

> **[VERIFY/TODO]** more info on ideas for request flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

3. Click the application, submit an access request, and confirm that it appears in the reviewer's queue.
4. Approve it, confirm that access is granted, and that the corresponding events are recorded.

## Requester experience

### Requesting access

Users see requestable applications as cards on the **Discover** page of the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx) under the **Browse** tab. Selecting a card opens the request dialog and runs the configured request flow.

### View pending requests

Users can view their pending access requests under the **My Requests** tab on the **Discover** page.

## Reviewer experience

### Approving and denying access requests

Reviewers see pending requests on the **Discover** page of the [user interface](../../users-sources/user/user-interface.mdx) under the **For My Review** tab. The requester, the requested application, and the time since the request was made are listed. Reviewers click the **Review** button and can approve or deny the request, and optionally add **Notes** before clicking the **Submit** button.

**[VERIFY/TODO]** more info on **Notes**

> ### Admin interfac

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Admin interface
```

**[VERIFY/TODO]** more info on interacting with access requests via admin interface

## Events and auditing

Every step of the request lifecycle is recorded as an event, and the new event actions are selectable in event matcher policies. Combine an event matcher policy with a notification rule to alert reviewers via Slack, email, or a webhook when a request is created, and to alert security teams when access is granted.

See [Events](../../sys-mgmt/events/index.md) and [Notifications](../../sys-mgmt/events/notifications.md) for more information.

## Considerations and limitations

- A user cannot approve their own request.
- Approved access is time-bound; plan expiry durations so that they match how long the work actually takes, or users will re-request frequently.
- Request rules depend on policies. A misconfigured policy can leave requests with no eligible reviewer.

> - **[VERIFY/TODO]** behavior when a request rule or application is deleted while requests are pending.

Reviewer 2: @BeryJu confirm this, you'd probably end up with either an empty request or a request that can never be approved

> - **[VERIFY/TODO]** behavior when an approved user is deactivated before expiry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
